# Official Documentation

## Getting Started
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/



## About The Graph


### Introduction
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/about/introduction/

### Network Overview
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/about/network/




## Developer


### Quick Start
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/quick-start/

### Define a Subgraph
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/define-subgraph-hosted/

### Create a Subgraph
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/create-subgraph-hosted/

### Publish a Subgraph to the Decentralized Network
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/publish-subgraph/

### Query The Graph
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/query-the-graph/

### Querying from an Application
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/querying-from-your-app/

### Distributed Systems
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/distributed-systems/

### AssemblyScript API
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/assemblyscript-api/

### AssemblyScript Migration Guide
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/assemblyscript-migration-guide/

### GraphQL API
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/graphql-api/

### Unit Testing Fraomework
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/matchstick/

### Deprecating a Subgraph
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/deprecating-a-subgraph/

### Developer FAQs
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/developer-faq/



## Indexer

### Indexer FAQs
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/indexing/#faq

### Indexer Getting Started
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/indexing/

#### Infrastructure
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/indexing/#infrastructure

#### Ports Overview
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/indexing/#ports-overview

### Setup server infrastructure using Terraform on Google Cloud
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/indexing/#setup-server-infrastructure-using-terraform-on-google-cloud

### Graph Node
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/indexing/#graph-node-2

### Indexer Components
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/indexing/#indexer-components

### Interacting with the network
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/indexing/#interacting-with-the-network

### The life of an allocation
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/indexing/#the-life-of-an-allocation




## Delegator

### Delegator Getting Started
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/delegating/#delegator-guide

### Delegation Risks
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/delegating/#delegation-risks

### Delegation Tax
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/delegating/#the-delegation-tax

### The delegation unbonding period
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/delegating/#the-delegation-unbonding-period

### Choosing a trustworthy Indexer with a fair reward payout for Delegators
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/delegating/#choosing-a-trustworthy-indexer-with-a-fair-reward-payout-for-delegators

#### Calculating Delegators expected return
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/delegating/#calculating-delegators-expected-return

#### Considering the query fee cut and indexing fee cut
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/delegating/#considering-the-query-fee-cut-and-indexing-fee-cut

#### Considering the Indexer's delegation pool
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/delegating/#considering-the-indexer-s-delegation-pool

#### Considering the delegation capacity
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/delegating/#considering-the-delegation-capacity

### Video guide for the network UI
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/delegating/#video-guide-for-the-network-ui




## Curator

### Curation FAQs
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/curating/#curation-fa-qs

### Curator Getting Started
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/curating/

#### Bonding Curve 101
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/curating/#bonding-curve-101

#### How to Signal
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/curating/#how-to-signal

#### What does Signaling mean for The Graph Network?
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/curating/#what-does-signaling-mean-for-the-graph-network

### Risks
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/curating/#risks



## Subgraph Studio

### How to Use the Subgraph Studio
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/subgraph-studio/

#### How to Create Your Account
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/subgraph-studio/#how-to-create-your-account

#### How to Create your Subgraph in Subgraph Studio
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/subgraph-studio/#how-to-create-your-subgraph-in-subgraph-studio

#### Subgraph Compatibility with The Graph Network
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/subgraph-studio/#subgraph-compatibility-with-the-graph-network

##### Subgraph Lifecycle Flow
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/subgraph-studio/#subgraph-lifecycle-flow

#### Testing your Subgraph in Subgraph Studio
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/subgraph-studio/#testing-your-subgraph-in-subgraph-studio

#### Publish your Subgraph in Subgraph Studio
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/subgraph-studio/#publish-your-subgraph-in-subgraph-studio

#### Versioning your Subgraph with the CLI
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/subgraph-studio/#versioning-your-subgraph-with-the-cli

##### Automatic Archiving of Subgraph Versions
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/subgraph-studio/#automatic-archiving-of-subgraph-versions

#### Managing your API keys
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/subgraph-studio/#managing-your-api-keys

#### How to Manage your Subgraph
https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/subgraph-studio/#how-to-manage-your-subgraph




